Natalie MallueData ManagementSOS 59819 February 2018Data Management Plan: Modeling Environmental Security in Sub-Saharan AfricaRoles and ResponsibilitiesNatalie Mallue is the PI for this research.  She is responsible for the data management plan, the data collection, analysis, and the data sharing.  She can be contacted at nmallue@asu.edu. Types of Data ProducedI will be collecting time series panel data from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the United Nations Millennium Development Goal Database, and population data from the World Bank.  I will be using this data to explore correlating dynamics and measure statistical significance between the three variables: access to clean water, arable land per capita, and political stability. The end result will be a statistical regression model that explores the relationship between those three variables. Data from my sources is available to the public on the internet in .csv format. Data produced will be quantitative and maintained in a personal Github repository during the project and available in a public GitHub respository following the publication of my research.Data and Metadata StandardsI will maintain metadata downloaded from original sources in the original format.  I will outline all data formats in a PDF available for download in the Github repository.  Additionally, any data corrections or notes will be maintained in the original spreadsheet format. Policies for Access and SharingPublic access for the data will not be available until after my thesis is published in the Arizona State University thesis repository.  If collaborators need access prior to that point, they will be granted temporary access to a shared repository on Github.  Access may be requested by emailing the PI.  After publication of my thesis, my data files will be publically available online in .csv format on Github. I will also submit a request for my data files to be available with my thesis on the hosted ASU thesis repository. Any use of the produced data will need to be properly cited.  All other questions about access should be directed to the PI.Policies for Re-use, RedistributionAccess to data will be available for educational, research, and non-profit purposes.  Access will be provided online only.  Data should not be re-released or redistributed by third parties without permission from the PI.Plans for Archiving and PreservationIn addition to being saved in the GitHub repository, the PI will maintain a personal copy of all archived versions, files, and metadata. This data will be available as long as they are of continuing value to the community. Contact information for the PI will be updated as long as the research is available through the Github repository.